# Deploying SAP Fiori Generator Extensions to SAP Business Application Studio

To make SAP Fiori generator extensions available to the SAP Fiori generator, they must be installed globally. To ensure an extension is always available for SAP Business Application Studio users, an additional configuration is used to install the extension automatically when creating new dev spaces.

## Using the WEX (SAP Business Application Studio Extension Management) Tool

The SAP Business Application Studio WEX tool is used to pre-configure the Create New Dev Space page in SAP Business Application Studio with additional extension options. Ensure the requirements for using the tool are met.

For more information, see [SAP Business Application Studio Extension Management](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sapse/business-application-studio-extension-management) and [Create and Deploy SAP Business Application Studio Extension](https://help.sap.com/docs/bas/sap-business-application-studio/create-and-deploy-sap-business-application-studio-extension).

The simple extension install process in SAP Business Application Studio requires that the extensions are available from a publicly accessible repo. The simplest approach is to create a repo on `github.com` and ensure that access is restricted to a single admin user and protected using a GitHub Personal Access Token (PAT). The PAT is then included in the repo access URL. The recommended approach is to create a release artefact on the repo so that versioned releases of the extension can be managed. This can be done through the `Draft a new release` option on GitHub web. An API is also available to achieve the same result.

> **Note:** The compiled output must be included in the repo for extensions written in TypeScript, as is demonstrated in the following example: `@sample/fiori-gen-ext`.

## Example: Deploying the Sample SAP Fiori Generator Extension

The provided `@sample/fiori-gen-ext` SAP Fiori generator extension can be deployed as follows:

1.  Locally implement and test your SAP Fiori generator extension by installing it globally:

    `npm install -g <extension_tarfile>`

    The tar file is generated by running `npm pack` in the root of the package.

    For more information about implementing the extension, see the [sample README](https://github.com/SAP-samples/fiori-tools-samples/sample-fiori-gen-ext/README.md).

2.  Once you have tested the extension and it behaves as expected, publish the new package to `github.com` and ensure that the repo is not publicly accessible. Generate a new GitHub Personal Access Token with the minimum required access (Profile -> Settings -> Developer Settings -> Tokens(classic) ). The minimum required access is: `read:packages` and `repo`. Create a new release artefact by using the `Draft new release` option ([https://github.com/\<User Name>/<Repository Name\>/releases/new](https://github.com/%5CUser%20Name%3E/%3CRepository%20Name%5C/releases/new)).

3. Prepare the simple extension config file, which is configured to access the artefact from GitHub:

The `sample-extension.json` file:

```json
{
    "apiVersion": "1",
    "name": "testing-sample-gen-ext",
    "namespace": "ext-<sub-account_name>",
    "autoSelectExtensions": [
    ],
    "about": {
        "tagline": "Sample Gen Ext - SAP Fiori Tools",
        "description": "Test extensions config - Sample Gen Ext",
        "thumbnail": "<base 64 encoded image>"
    },
    "hidden": false,
    "version": "0.0.2",
    "vscodeExtensions": [],
        "yeomanPackages": [
            {
                "name": "@sample/fiori-gen-ext",
                "versionRange": "https://<User Name>:<Github PAT>@github.com/<User Name>/sample-fiori-gen-ext/archive/refs/tags/v0.0.1.tar.gz"
            }
        ]
}
```

> **Note:** To auto-select the extension for all new dev spaces, use the `autoSelectExtensions` property set to `["ext-sap-ux-stage/testing-sample-gen-ext"]`.


4. Deploy the WEX (SAP Business Application Studio Extension Management tool) config file using the command: `wex deploy --verbose -f <wex_config_filename>.json`.

    For more information, see the [SAP Business Application Studio Extension Management](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sapse/business-application-studio-extension-management?activeTab=code) tool documentation.

5. A new extension appears on the Create Dev Space page in SAP Business Application Studio. Select this extension and create a dev space to automatically install it. To verify the installation or view any errors, view the log file in the opened dev space at the path: `/extbin/generators/simple-extension-yo-install-output.txt`.
